The boys that lived in the house begged me to paddle
them and I didn't paddle them because I didn't,
they wanted to be able to say how much that they got,
how much they suffered when they didn't suffer at
all. But I was so annoyed about the hazing that I
wouldn't use the board, and other than that, there
was no hazing in the project houses.
One of the students that was in the Lufkin house
where I moved was a fellow by the name of Starr, and I
was quite, and if you read my memoirs, get a lot of
information about my relationship with the Starr
family. I don't want to recount that now.
And by then you were beginning to decide about
being a dairy science major? That's right.
Describe the routine of courses for a dairy
science major.
Well, in general, they were the same courses that
all agriculture students took. There was not much
difference. But my senior year, I decided that the
prospects of getting a job in dairy
field management, there was jobs available for
dairy ice cream Production people, but not for
herd work. And so I took 20 hours.
And in addition, I audited four hours because I
needed the course to have a double major. I was in
class every hour in the week. And I was living in the
dorm. but I was in class every hour in the week
except religious emphasis week. And because of my
heavy load, I was a distinguished student my
senior year.
A's count so much and B's count so much and I
probably,
I probably had a 1.7 or 9 or something. I really did
not have a B average, and yet I was a distinguished
student because I'd taken such a heavy load.
Who were the key dairy science instructors in
those days?
Dean. Kyle? No, Shepard, who later became a
Federal Reserve man, was an instructor. And
Darnell was the dairy cattle judge coach. And I
really didn't know anybody other than those two
people. If you needed advice in those days about
what courses to take or what to do, where did you go
to seek advice and counsel?
I don't know how to answer that question. It was
just like this poll in the audience. But did Dan
Russell, was he a person that would say, here's
what you ought to do? No. We had no contact with him
except as a supervisor.
Go ahead. Were there nicknames for faculty
members and students in those days? Yes, sir. What
was yours? I never knew. I never knew. What were
some that you remember for faculty? Head N. Jones
was one of them in the chemistry. I
don't remember. Did Dr. Russell have one yet? I
didn't know it if he did. Because when I got there,
he was Dr. Dan the grade point man. Supposedly that
he would pass you if you would give any effort. By
the way, what year did you get there? 1959. 1959.
Same year Mr. Rutter got there a few months before I
did. Is that right? Yes, sir. I always thought that
they made a mistake when they let
the Rutter preceding man Morgan? Right. I thought
he was one of the more capable. He had the same ideas
that later would become... I understand. Let's
see.
Describe the dormitory... When you lived in the
dormitory on the campus, describe the routine of
life in that dormitory. Well... Since they had two
rooms of seniors, four people, and I was the fifth
one, they put me in the same room with the first
sergeant of the company. And I'd get up in time to
get to the mess hall. And by the time I got through
eating after serving the meals, I was on my way to
class. I generally didn't have to go back to my
room. And incidentally, 50 years after the fact, I
found that my orderly was one of my competitors.
compadres in the China, Burma, India campaign.
He's a little older than I am. And I've recently
contacted him and we've had dinner together. He's
a little older than I am. Your task in the dining
hall, what was your job there? I carried the trays.
So you would report for breakfast at about what
time? 6.15, 6.30. I don't remember exactly. But I
had to be there ready to dish the food out They did
give me one. They gave me the first table out of the
door so I didn't have to carry the food to the far
end. The freshmen did. But the people on my table
were the staff of A&M. The cadet colonel and the
lieutenant colonel and all of the staff officers.
The big shots of that senior class were at the table
I waited on. And how were you treated as a waiter by
those people? No different than they would have
treated any other person. Then you would eat
quickly and head off to class for an 8 o'clock.
That's right. Then you'd come back to begin your
lunch assignment. As soon as I finished my 12
o'clock class. And I'd eat quickly and go to my 1
o'clock class my senior year. And then the same for
supper. What time would you get through in the
evening? I imagine 7, 7.15, something like that.
And what dormitory did you live in that year? Ross
Hall. Ross Hall. Describe it. Well, it was one of
the oldest dormitories on the campus. And the
latrine was on the bottom floor, and they finally
installed a urinal on the third floor. And the
rooms were fairly big
enough as far as I'm concerned. And I sort of made it
known that I didn't care what time my roommate came
in at night. But he wasn't to come in and wake me up
because he was drunk. And I made that, you know, I
just leave it at that. I never went in hard. Hard.
Hard haul? No. I'm talking about the very joint.
Oh, hard liquors. Hard liquors. Hard liquors. I
never went in hard liquors while I was there. Now,
it was. south on Welborn Road, south of the campus.
That's right. Where else, other than that, did
Aggies drink beer? I don't know. Because to get
whiskey, they had to go towards Snook, cross
Whiskey Bridge. There was no place in downtown.
I've never heard of a bootlegger in the county. No.
When, on Saturday night, if you and some of your
friends wanted to have a good time, where did y'all
go? We went to a dormitory room and played bridge. I
played bridge on Saturday night many, many times.
No poker? No poker. I never played poker. Always
bridge. It was a hard job to find four people to play
bridge with on Saturday night.
And how long did those bridge games sometimes
last? Oh, till midnight. Okay. Then on Sunday
afternoon, what did y'all do?
I don't know how to answer that question. I just
don't remember. What about, did you go to the clay
pits? No. I spent my Sunday afternoon... on
religious work, visiting students that I could
find in their rooms. What about some good bull
pranks and jokes that you remember that happened?
What were some of the pranks that students played
on somebody, whether you were involved or not?
Well, Float Out, I guess you've heard of that,
haven't you? pouring water on somebody from an
upper story. I really don't have much comment on
that. Did you go to any of the dances? No. Did you not
believe in dancing or just didn't go? Well, I
didn't go because I couldn't dance and I my
religious faith was such that I probably would not
have gone. I've never danced as far as that's
concerned. Describe a football weekend in those
years.
Well, I had to go on the court trips, but I didn't
have enough money to buy a ticket. And I'd stand at
the gate till the half when they opened the gate and
I'd go in. But one of the most lonesome trips I ever
made was a court trip to Dallas. We had to go to
Dallas. And when the game was over, I was wandering
the streets of Dallas all by myself and it was as
lonesome as I have been, except one other time I
remember. When I lived on the poultry farm, I
stayed there on Thanksgiving so everybody else
could live. And the Mexicans were cleaning up the
pasture back of the dairy farm, and those Mexicans
would sing at night, and I couldn't understand a
word, but they really sang very well. And I'd get so
homesick that it is, It is really hard to hang
around any longer.
On that Dallas trip, you were lonesome because you
were by yourself? That's right. What about a court
trip to Austin? What was that like? Well,
after the game, I caught a ride with friends of mine
that were coming to Moody's. And I rode the Moody
one Thanksgiving day from Austin Courtship in the
rumble seat of a Model A Ford, I guess. And I had a
blanket to keep the wind and rain off of me.
Did any of your friends have a car? No.
Let's see, who was the president when you were an
undergraduate, A&M president?
T.O. Walton. I had trouble getting that name.
Describe him as you students thought of him. Well,
my personal opinion was that he did a great job. And
the fact that he was fired... because he couldn't
run the college after he'd been there 24 years or
some such figure. I don't know how long it was. But
it offended me to say that, well, he can't run this
college after he'd been there plenty of years. I
had no personal contact with him at any time. Did
you all see him very often?
Not particularly. I didn't have any reason to see
him. I didn't give him any reason to want to see me.
The depression effects continued all the years
while you were a student. Where did a student go if
he was broke? Was there any place he could go to get
some financial help? Well, The last year that I was
in A&M, I was living in the dormitory, and I got a
loan from the former students, $400. And the pay
from the Army and the pay from the mess hall and the
$400 I borrowed took care of my senior year. But I
still didn't have enough money to buy a senior
ring. And I got it in 1944. My kids got to have a
senior ring the first day they qualified for it,
grandkids. So that you didn't have a senior ring
for ten years? Eight years. Eight years. Nine
years, maybe. Since you have had that ring, are
there any Aggie ring stories? Did you ever lose it
or somebody notice it in a special place?
Now then, when I taught at A&M, the students would
see that ring, and they knew what it was. And the
other thing is that this design was adopted in
1935, my class, and it's been the same since 1935.
And the other thing was the watch that were awarded
to outstanding teachers, You told me that you got
yours in 64. Yes, sir. I got mine in 65. And to one
extent or another, mine won't keep time now
because I don't move around enough. You've got to
shake your hand and it'll run perfectly. until
about time you get in bed and then it stops and you
have to set it every morning so I don't wear it
anymore.
Religious emphasis week, describe what that was
like when you were a student.
Well, The date was set on 11 o'clock on Tuesday for a
general convention. And then leaders from the
different religious groups would come there in
addition to the main speaker. And they would come
there and would hold counseling sessions with the
boys in the dormitory or in the YMCA or something
like that. And... I didn't have any contact with
them. I'm not sure that I even remember religious
emphasis week as a student. I do as a faculty
member. Guyon Hall was a key place for big events of
movies and speakers and so forth, is that right?
Right. Do you remember any famous people that came
to the campus during your student years?
Not really. Because President Roosevelt didn't
come during those years, I don't think. That's
right. Now then, after I was a staff member, I
remember all of the famous people that were there.
We'll get to those in a little bit. In
Sabeasa in those days, they had the big dances and
the parties, the cotton ball and all that. Right.
What did you folks who worked in the dining hall,
what arrangements did you all have to make to get
ready for those? None. None? Okay. So that
didn't... That didn't enter into our job in the
mess hall.
Let's see. How did an Aggie get a date in those days?
There weren't any girls attending. He couldn't
get a date at home because mothers of high school
girls didn't want to have a college boy going with
their daughter. So I didn't have a date. You didn't
have dates all those years? That's right.
Did you go to the movie much? After I moved in closer
to the campus, I'd go once a month or something like
that. Where? At the... Campus theater? Campus.
No, not the campus theater. Or downtown? Oh, well,
on the street there where Lupo's was. Oh, okay.
See, there was a movie theater there, and it was
just a few blocks from where I lived in the Ruffkin
house. What else was there at the Northgate? What
businesses and... Well, Lupo's had a business
there. There's a barber shop, maybe two or three
bookstores other than Northgate, restaurants or
two. That was about all. Describe J.E. Lupo and his
business. Well, Lupo was of a kind that they don't
make anymore. And my experience with Lupo mostly
came about because his son was in my boy scout troop
when I was a scoutmaster. And I understand he had a
file of old quizzes on genetics that he let people
see it from time to time. It didn't bother me that he
did. Now, I always understood that if a student was
broke, Lupo would lend them money or would let them
buy books on credit. Did any of your buddies
ever... Not that I know of.
When you were a student, what off-campus events do
you remember? You remember hearing some
important things happening... somewhere else
that you heard on the radio or heard about? Well, I
was in the Camp Bullish in San Antonio when the
downed quintuplets were born. You
know, I don't...
That was after my junior year. And let's see,
President Roosevelt was... in office during your
student days, most of the time, wasn't he? Yeah, he
was. And he had a son on the board of directors at
A&M, Elliot. And Elliot got money to build
dormitory rooms, and that's when they cut out the
project houses. So he helped to get the money for
the, what you and I call the new dorm area? Right.
Really? That's right. There's no question. where
did elliott live in those years fort worth as far as
i know okay uh... and so it just happened that a
democratic governor appointed uh... the son of
the president that's right to the a m board board of
regents did uh... at uh... final review and other
things like that did uh... the board were they
there as far as you knew i didn't know
Did you and your buddies ever go into the steam
tunnels?
I didn't. No, I don't know of anybody else that did.
Did you ever hear of the secret fraternities in
those days, the secret Aggie fraternities? No, I
did not know anything about it. But were you aware
that they existed? Not really. What the student
indulgence is at that time? Students drank beer.
What were the most popular varieties of beer? How
would I know if I never drank a bottle of beer? But
you didn't hear him talk about it? Not any. What
about smoking? Who smoked? Did the typical
student smoke? Probably. And were they smoking
cigarettes or cigars or pipes? They were smoking
cigarettes, and most of us rolled our own. Bull
Durham. Bull Durham? Yes, sir. And did you carry
them in your shirt pocket? Probably.
Where did the students smoke?
In their rooms? Yeah, in their rooms. But never in
class, never in the buildings. I don't know that
for sure. I
never saw any smoking in class. You said you never
went to Hardlickers. Were there any other places
that were kind of off limits for you and your
friends? Not that I knew of. Let's see. On a home
football day, describe... a home football
Saturday. What time did y'all get up and what did
you do? On
the home football game when I was a student at A&M,
I'd get up in the morning and work. At noon, I'd go
over and wait for them to open the gate so I could get
in free at Taft. I really did not buy. And I saw many
A&M games when I was a faculty member because the
Boy Scouts would serve as ushers. So the Boy
Scouts, of course I bought season tickets for a
while. I had an interesting experience. We'll
leave at 11.30 to go eat.
Gene Stallings was well known to me when he was a
student. And when he was coach, he took two members
of the faculty with him whenever he went to a ball
game. And so he took me and an English teacher to LSU
when they played LSU. And I enjoyed being with the
team and so forth. When halftime came, we had
sideline passes. When I said to Gene, well, you
want me to go to the locker room with you? And he
said, yes, I do. He said, when we puke, I want you to
puke.
Gene's wife taught in college. A&M the year before
they were married. My daughter was in her Sunday
school class, so we knew her real well. Fine
people, fine people. You bet. Let's see. How did
you and your buddies learn the Aggie yells and
songs?
I don't know that we all knew them. I guess
I went to Yale practice after I lived in the
dormitory, but I did not go until I lived one year in
the dormitory. Let's see. Describe, as a student,
describe a
final review. Where was it held? What did you and
your buddies? It was on the drill field in front of
the Memorial Student Center. Now, wait a minute.
I don't know when the Memorial Student Center was
on that drill field anyway. Was that a serious
event for you and your buddies?
It wasn't for me.
And then commencement. Where was commencement
held? Oh, wait a minute. The awarding of degree,
no, yeah, was held in the stadium on the south end.
And I have no idea who the speaker was that day, but
when he got up, he said, I want to congratulate the
people of A&M, said, I've been standing here
looking at the sun. And I was introduced just as the
sun went down over that stadium wall.
When you graduated, who came from your family? My
mother. And she was the only one. My father's
brother was buried the day I graduated from A&M,
and my sister was a student in the TWU then. She
couldn't.
Do you remember going to silver taps as a student?
Yeah, I do. Describe that. Well, the people would
gather on the campus and it was a very solemn
occasion and it was a silence that you could cut
with a stick. And that was the whole thing, so far as
I know. It was just playing of taps, and everybody
gathered, and when the ceremony was over, they
left. Did it touch your hearts?
I really don't remember that it had much
significance to me as a 17-year-old boy. But did
you all ever act silly during Muster? Not that I
know of. Nobody's ever indicated to me that they
did. What about Muster? Do you remember going to
Aggie Muster before World War II? I went to an Aggie
Muster during World War II. But what about before?
Well, now, look, I didn't go before. Well... I have
the theory that World War II is really the birth of
Aggie musters. That's right. You said you
attended one during the war. Describe that,
please. I got into O-RAN in North Africa sometime
in the first part of April. Of 43? 44. Four, okay.
And the...
group that I was with was a special group, 250 field
grade officers going to a specific mission. And we
were there for about six weeks. And I heard about
the Aggie Muster and I went to the Aggie Muster in
O-Ran and at the same time they had the Muster on
Corregidor. And I ran into a man not too long ago who
was invited to come to A&M because he was in the
Aggie Muster and O-Ran, and I hadn't been invited
to A&M because I did. But I would have gone to the
Aggie Muster in 45, had all my plans, but I was given
orders to move out. And where I went, the muster was
me. All right, this muster in Oran, how many people
were there? About 20. And describe the content.
What did you all do? Well, as far as I know, there
wasn't much of a program. We just met and said,
here's a muster. And I don't recall the... any part
of it except I know I went. Do you remember any
feelings you had? No, I don't have any feelings. I
attended every muster when I was at A&M after I got
home. I'm making, I believe, my 24th muster speech
this spring. I'm doing the one in Albuquerque. I
did Nashville, Tennessee last year. What was
Aggie Bonfire like when you were a student? Trash.
Did you help gather it? No, I didn't. Where was it
held? On the drill field. And where'd that trash
come from? Well, just wherever the Aggies could
find it. And what did they put up on top of the
bonfire? Well, they had the T.U. Dormitory up
there. Where did they get those, those privies? As
far as I know, they steal them wherever they can
find them. Who came to the bonfire when it was
ignited, when it burned? Who was there? It wasn't
the same at all when I was a student.
What are the experiences that build Aggie spirit
and Aggie pride? Well,
I don't really know, I must admit, the
companionship of other people in a common
endeavor, I guess. There's a statement that if you
have it, you don't know where you got it, and if you
don't have it, you can't understand it. So I I have
that sort of feeling that
I just have been acquainted with A&M so long. Is it
partly that A&M is inclusive, that it doesn't
matter whether you're rich or poor, whether
you're from the country or the city, if you'll do
your share, you're welcome? Is that part of it?
Part of it. When you were a student, do you remember
some poor boys and rich boys being friends?
No, I don't really, because we were all poor boys in
this project house, or we wouldn't have been
there. And you know, the interesting thing to me is
the fact that I started in 1968,
maybe, going to the former students with these
cards and pulling out the ones who graduated. And
one of them was the man that the College of
Engineering is named for. H.B. Zachary? No. Oh.
Look. Oh, oh, oh, yeah, Dwight Look. Dwight Look.
And some of the people in the project houses there
sort of felt like that that he wasn't exactly uh...
I don't know, it wasn't exactly uh... I don't know
what to say. Did he live in a project house? Yes,
sir. Where was he from? I have no idea. So he's a poor
boy who made good financially. Yes, sir, but Let's
keep it. Yeah.
Talking about looking at what makes this Aggie
feeling. You had some friends who were,
there was a variety of where they came from. Right.
A variety of where they worshipped. Right. Were
there some Hispanic students at A&M when you were?
Not any as far as I know. What about Jewish? They had
a few. And were they accepted? I couldn't. There
was a Jewish boy on the table that I waited on that I
didn't see that there was any discrimination at
all. What about, were there students from other
countries?
Maybe from Cuba. In Mexico, that's all I knew. And
they were accepted? They were accepted. They were
not discriminated against. And I'm guessing that
during that period, one of the most common threads
would have been that everybody was short on money.
That's true. What are the qualities of being an
Aggie? What is an Aggie? Since I'm not really a
gung-ho
Aggie, I don't really know how to answer that
question. But you're a very proud Aggie. That's
true. But in the meantime,
what I have done, and I consider that I've had a
fantastic life, I'll tell you that. had nothing to
do with my student days at A&M. I just went to A&M and
worked hard and got by. And when I graduated, I got a
little tube, didn't have anything in it. I wasn't
old enough to be an officer.
And when I got my commission on my 21st birthday, I
went to military camp for two weeks, and then I
didn't have any further military experience
until I was called into war. Your first job after
graduation was what? Teaching. Where? St.
Gabriel, Texas. How did you get that job? Well, the
people would that needed an ag teacher would come
to College Station and look at the resumes of all of
the ag ed majors, and they'd pick out three. And
when they picked out three, then they would
arrange for us to come to be interviewed. And 10
times I went,
and Dick Burleson went, And somebody else went.
And after five times of going, the students said,
look, if you want a job, just go with Burleson and
McNeil. Because I was 20 years old at the time and
looked like I was going on 18. And there wasn't
anybody that was going to hire an 18-year-old to
teach vocational agriculture. And I got to San
Gabriel.
and I went back to A&M three weeks for a meets course
so I could find out and the only lead they had was San
Gabriel that I could go after I left finally. I went
to San Gabriel and they said now look you can't have
the job if Jamie Clark doesn't give it to you but you
just as well visit some of the others and so When
Jamie Clark came in and I said, look, Mr. Clark, I'm
here to see about the job as ag teacher. And he said,
you've got the job. Evidently, he may have talked
to somebody else. But I said, well, what do you pay?
I pay $90 a month. I said, look, he said, we pay our
superintendent $125 a month. We're not going to
pay the ag teacher more than the superintendent.
And it took me two months to get him to get the board
to give me expenses as well as my $90 a month. I got
$75 for car expenses. And that's my first job. Now,
San Gabriel is down south of? West of, it's in Milam
County. Milam County. Between Cameron and
Rockdale. About how big school was it then? Oh,
they had 25 or 30. In the whole? In the whole school.
In the whole school. And your duty was to teach
what? Vocational agriculture half the time and
teach some other class half of the time. How well
prepared did you feel A&M had made you for that
task?
Not really. Is that right? That's right. What did
you feel A&M had left out?
Well,
I didn't really get enough how
to teach, enough experience. I had one day in an
education class that I had that I went out to
practice teach, and one day of something else. And
so it was... as good as anybody else was doing in any
school as far as I was concerned, but it wasn't that
comprehensive. What time is it? We've got about,
it's now 1120. Okay. And we're about through with
this tape, so that'll break out even. As you look
back, what effect has it had on your life that you
went to Texas A&M?
It just kept me from being a renter on a cotton farm
at Moody.
And some people that helped you get there and stay
there must have earned gratitude from you. Who are
those people that you now feel most grateful to?
Well, both my daddy and mother. And I'm grateful to
the
faculty that permitted the beginning of the
project houses. And as far as I'm concerned, the
people that I dealt with in the project houses.
What did you... Now, we're using the word learn in a
very broad sense. What did you learn at A&M? Not
book learning, but...
I don't really know that I can answer that. You
learned to continue working hard because you had
to. That's right. And I learned to get along in my
classwork. Mm-hmm. do my work, except at the
English course that I ignored.
What feelings do you hold in your heart now for
Texas A&M? Well, I'll tell you. I'm very grateful
to A&M because everything that I have been
involved with includes A&M. I also feel like that
A&M owes me more than I owe A&M in that I underwent
bad treatment to get a degree from A&M.
And I did a better job of their overseas mission
than anybody that went into that group. I had
contact with people of importance that I could
sway in East Pakistan when I was there. And the head
of the party would come to me and ask me to do this or
that or the other instead of them doing that job.
But I did a great job. My family and I did.